Section 1
DPDK Foundation.
There are ten chapters in this section, focusing on the basic concepts and software libraries,
including CPU scheduler, multicore usage, cache/memory management, data
synchronization, PMD (poll mode driver) and NIC-related features, and software API
(application programming interface). PMD is very important concept and the new user space
software driver for NIC. Understanding the DPDK (Data Plane Development Kit) basics will
build a solid foundation before starting on the actual projects.
In the first five chapters, we will introduce the server platform basics such as cache use,
parallel computing, data synchronization, data movement, and packet forwarding models and
algorithms. Chapter 1 will introduce the networking technology evolution, and the network
function appliance trend, going from hardware purpose-built box to software-defined
infrastructure, which is present in the cloud. Essentially, it is the silicon advancement that
drives the birth of DPDK, and a few basic examples are given here. Chapter 2 will introduce
memory and cache in the performance optimization context, how to use cache and memory
wisely, the concept of the HugePage and NUMA (non-uniform memory access), and the
cache alignment data structure. Chapters 3 and 4 will focus on multicore and multi-thread,
the effective model for the data sharing for high parallelism, and the lock-free mechanism.
Chapter 5 will move to the packet forwarding models and algorithms, and the decision is
required to choose the run-to-completion and/or pipeline model, or both.
The next five chapters will focus on I/O optimization, and we will talk about PCIe, NIC,
and PMD design and optimization details, which enables DPDK PMD to deliver the high-
speed forwarding rate to meet demands at 10 Gbe, 25 Gbe, and 40 Gbe up to 100 Gbe in a
server platform. Chapter 6 will have a deep dive on PCIe transaction details for the packet
movement. Chapter 7 will focus on NIC performance tuning, and the platform and NIC
configuration. Chapters 8 and 9 will go further into NIC common features and software
usage, the multi-queue, flow classification, core assignment, and load balancing methods to
enable a highly scalable I/O throughput, and will introduce the NIC offload feature on
L2/L3/L4 packet processing. Chapter 10 is about packet security and crypto processing;
securing the data in transit is an essential part of Internet security. How can DPDK add value
to “encrypt everywhere”?
